---
layout: post
date: April 16, 2017
title: "Tabula Rasa"
category: "Personal Opinion"
excerpt: "Each blog is the writer's embodiment in a form or another, such ideas are reflected in the minute details of every post, and aspect of a blogger's opinion. In accordance with this idea, stems the title for a blog, 'what exactly should the blog be called?'."
description: "My attempt at making a personalized blog."
---

I’ve wanted to blog for a while. There are a lot of ideas and stories that I want to tell here. Strangely, it had never occurred to me that I would have to give this blog any sort of title, so when WordPress asked me to give a title and choose a domain name, I was at a loss.Thinking about this actually led to some interesting reflection. What things are important enough to me to title my blog about them? I tried to come up with clever names combining my dual loves for medicine and mathematics, expressions related to the hippocratic oath (primum non nocere, etc.), or research. It was at this point that two things occurred to me: Making up clever expressions is hard.Nothing I could come up with would give justice to all the things I want this space to be about. There are simply too many things I might discuss, and why be restrictive? It was at this point I remembered an expression I had heard used long back at the beginning of highschool school by an amazing mentor in first-year neuroscience, 'You are like a tabula rasa – a blank slate which can take knowledge from many sources.' This is perfect. It’s also a really important concept – let me explain below: It was Aristotle, Avicenna, Locke, among others, who posited that tabula rasa refers to the concept that humans are born as a blank slate, and learn behaviours and attitudes as they grow and mature. In my line of research, it’s actually the machines I talk to that are born tabula rasa, since they start out with no understanding of disease (i.e. a blank slate). I then tell them the basic rules of what is happening at the biological scale, to see what happens when they gain this understanding. So there you go. I hope to use this tabula rasa, get messy with the chalk, and start writing about some more ideas really soon!
